# ASWF USDWG Meeting - June 10, 2020

## Attendance

* [x] Cory Omand - WG Chair, Pixar/TWDS
* [x] Alan Blevins, Dreamworks
* [x] Alex Schwank, Apple
* [ ] Aloys Baillet, Animal Logic
* [ ] Andy Biar,  Warner Bros.
* [x] Brian Green, Dreamworks
* [ ] Carson Brownlee, Intel
* [ ] Charles Fleche, Rodeo FX
* [x] Chris Rydalch, Blue Sky Studios
* [x] Daniel Heckenberg, Animal Logic
* [X] Dhruv Govil, Apple
* [ ] Eoin Murphy, Animal Logic
* [ ] Eric Enderton, NVidia
* [ ] Francois Lord, Rodeo FX
* [x] Gary Jones, Foundry
* [x] Gordon Bradley, Autodesk
* [ ] Henry Vera, DNEG
* [ ] James Pedlingham, Foundry
* [ ] Jeff Bradley, Dreamworks
* [ ] John Hood, SPI
* [ ] John Mertic, Linux Foundation
* [ ] Jordan Soles, Rodeo FX
* [x] JT Nelson, Pasadena Open Source Consortium/SoCal Blender group
* [ ] Kimball Thurston, Weta
* [ ] Larry Gritz, SPI
* [ ] Lee Kerley, SPI
* [ ] Mark Elendt, SideFX
* [ ] Mark Final, Foundry
* [x] Mark Tucker, SideFX
* [ ] Matthew Levine, WDAS
* [ ] Michael B. Johnson, Apple
* [x] Michael Kass, NVidia
* [x] Michael Min, Netflix
* [ ] Niall Redmond, Foundry
* [x] Nick Porcino, Pixar
* [x] Pilar Molina Lopez, Blue Sky Studios
* [x] Pier Paolo Ciarravano, MPC
* [ ] Robin Rowe, CinePaint
* [ ] Roman Zulak, SPI
* [ ] Rory Woodford, Foundry
* [ ] Sean Looper, AWS
* [X] Sean McDuffee, Intel
* [ ] Serguei Kalentchouk, Apple
* [x] Shawn Dunn, Epic Games
* [x] Toby Jones, Walt Disney Animation Studios
* [x] Ben Chung-Hoon, Google
* [x] Sue Sauer, Sunrise Productions
* [x] Richard Lei, Weta
* [x] Bill Spitzak, Dreamworks Animation

## Apologies

## Agenda

* Cory: Note about meeting recordings.  Group is happy with current approach: meetings are recorded for reference but recordings not published or broadcast.
* Action item follow-up [0:00-0:10]
  * Contribution guidelines for knowledge base
  * CoryO: current github repo requires DCO signoff for commits.  Is this too restrictive?
  * JohnM: Best practice in other groups is to treat documentation as software via markdown etc.  with contribution licences etc.  This is particularly important for materials that may need to be shared.
  * MichaelK: This will create friction for small and frequent contributions.  Has USD team given a position on whether it would be acceptable to have a more broadly edited (and possibly occasionally inaccurate) wiki?  
  * CoryO: USD team intends to expand documentation with versioning against USD releases, including FAQ. They are happy to have a companion, public FAQ / knowledge base.
  * CoryO: Is Creative Commons a suitable licence?  
  * JohnM: Have to ensure the IP model is compatible with ASWF. 
* Platform for contribution (github wiki, something else?)
  * JohnM: Has now switched github wiki permissions to allow public edits
* Knowledge Base Category Brainstorming (Alan) [0:10-0:40]
  * [Brainstorming Doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fm9tLneBMgsg8OdGqkLJrHOYAa1KBJXO-KODfPoQ8nA/edit?usp=sharing)
* Closing/Action Items [0:40-0:50]

## Action Items
  * IPython/Jupyter notebook integration (JT)
  * Take a stab at github wiki categories (Cory)
  * Contribution license (CC) on front page of wg-usd (Cory/John)
  * Samples/notebooks area in the repo (Cory)
  * Integrate build club and other resources into wg-usd KB wiki (Nick)
