# ASWF USDWG Meeting - March 4, 2020

## Attendance

* [x] Cory Omand, Pixar/TWDS
* [x] John Mertic, Linux Foundation
* [x] Michael Johnson (Wave), Apple
* [x] Dhruv Govil, Apple (AR)
* [x] Michael Kass, NVidia (Omniverse)
* [x] Eric Enderton, NVidia
* [x] Alex Schwank, DNEG
* [x] Alan Blevins, DWA
* [x] Pilar Molina, Blue Sky
* [x] Lee Kerley, SPI
* [x] Mark Tucker, SideFX
* [x] Mark Elendt, SideFX
* [x] Sean McDuffee, Intel (Osprey)
* [x] Carson Brownlee, Intel (Osprey)
* [x] James Pedlingham, Foundry (Katana)
* [x] Mark Final, Foundry
* [x] Rory Woodford, Foundry (Mari)
* [x] Gary Jones, Foundry (Katana)
* [x] Kimball Thurston, Weta
* [x] Andy Biar, Warner Bros.
* [x] Robin Rowe, CinePaint
* [x] Daniel Heckenberg, Animal Logic
* [x] Eoin Murphy, Animal Logic
* [x] Aloys Baillet, Animal Logic
* [x] Henry Vera, DNEG
* [x] Michael Min, Netflix
* [x] Francois Lord, Rodeo FX
* [x] Larry Grits, SPI
* [x] John Hood, SPI
* [x] Gordon Bradley, Autodesk (Maya)
* [x] Matthew Levine, WDAS (Presto/USD)
* [x] Charles Fleche, Rodeo FX
* [x] Niall Redmond, Foundry
* [x] JT Nelson, Blender/Pasadena Open Source

## Minutes

* Kick-off, introductions (jmertic, 22:05)

* Setting the context (jmertic, 30:40)
    * Intention of a working group is to tackle a particular problem or task in
      the industry.
    * TAC identified a desire for a working group around USD
    * This is the first project to go through the ASWF TAC working group
      process.
    * Cory put together a proposal for the working group, putting together a
      strawman, with objectives, goals and non-goals.

* Discuss review charter template (comand, 32:30)
    * Purpose of the working group is to support the USD project for adoption
      and deployment across the industry.
    * Lots of strong interest in USD, supporting that level of interest is a
      challenge for the USD team.
    * Objectives, like setting up CI for USD, are distinct from the goals of
      the working group.
    * Cory: Question to the group about whether there were other items to add
      to the goals, or to further clarify the existing points in the WG
      template.
    * Kass[NVidia]: Desire for alignment between studios for schemas that are
      not on Pixar's radar.
    * Cory: USDWG is not a standards body. What seems more important is
      alignment to enable sharing of assets.
    * Wave[APPLE]: Seems important to provide best practices for USD to allow
      studios that are just getting started to have somewhere to start.
    * Daniel[AL]: These items around alignment and best practices are getting
      at edge cases on the stated goals of the working group; at a high-level,
      what can this working group add to the existing channels, like
      usd-interest, without splintering the current open space for
      communication?
        * Creating a repository for sharing of artifacts.
        * USD would like to ensure that whatever develops as part of the WG,
          it doesn't become a separate channel to support.
    * Kass[NVidia]: Could support development of projects that Pixar cannot do.
    * Alex[DNEG]: Could get more infrastructure in place for discussing these
      things where the usd-interest list is not the best place. Some
      repository or online forum where it's better to discuss technical
      things.
    * Cory: Concern is that if we add another channel of communication, it
      could potentially cut people that watch usd-interest out of the
      conversation.
    * Dhruv[APPLE]: Would you be open to using GH issues and GH wiki for more
      formalized interactions, which may not cause things to be any more
      fractured than they already are.
        * Cory: USD project does make use of GH issues today.
        * Dhruv: Some languages like rust and swift use issues as a way to do
          RFC proposals and similar things. Doesn't seem like anyone is
          submitting issues of this nature as GH issues.
        * Cory: Can take it to the team to see if they feel that would be an
          effective way for people to make these sorts of proposals.
        * Possible development of a white paper process, similar to how Pixar
          works within the usd-interest alias, proposing, commenting and
          approving via USDWG github (content + GH issues?).
    * Chris[Weta]: In a number of projects that involve sharing assets between
      studios. Need a higher standard for sharing assets, in particular
      shading, and how that is shared.
        * Michael[Netflix]: agree. Need additional resources to enable sharing
          of assets between studios.
        * Cory: definitely seems to be something that would be assisted by the
          consolidation and sharing of best practices.
    * Cory: Seems like most of the things discussed at this point are covered
      under the goals stated in the template. Does anyone feel that there
      are new goals to be added?
        * Eric[NVidia]: Need to be more explicit about alignment. Organizing
          efforts for projects like Python 3.
        * Larry[Sony]: Anxiety around Pixar and their schedule, while
          understandable, creates a bottleneck for others, and therefore a
          risk. Any way we can marshall resources without stomping on Pixar.
          Helping with opportunities to implement items that are on the
          schedule but wouldn't happen until later without assistance.
        * Gordon[Autodesk]: Complement the great work that Pixar is doing,
          tackle studio adoption blockers to coordinate our attack on a
          particular area.
        * Kass[NVidia]: There are a range of important topics where Pixar
          feels passionately how it should be done, and wants to carefully
          control the evolution of USD, but there are other areas where it's
          not as important, for instance asset management. Standardizing on
          the pieces that are outside of USD and connect to it would be a
          really valuable possible role for the WG.

## Action items

* Cory:
    * Get the USDWG GitHub project set up.
    * Reassess the template given some of the items from today's meeting.
* John:
    * schedule next meeting for 2w out
        * alternating Wednesdays with the TAC meeting
        * extend time to 1h
        * bi-weekly cadence going forward
