# ASWF USDWG Meeting - May 27, 2020

## Attendance

* [x] Cory Omand - WG Chair, Pixar/TWDS
* [ ] John Mertic, Linux Foundation
* [ ] Michael B. Johnson, Apple
* [ ] Dhruv Govil, Apple
* [ ] Michael Kass, NVidia
* [ ] Eric Enderton, NVidia
* [ ] Alex Schwank, Apple
* [ ] Alan Blevins, Dreamworks
* [ ] Pilar Molina Lopez, Blue Sky Studios
* [ ] Lee Kerley, SPI
* [ ] Mark Tucker, SideFX
* [ ] Mark Elendt, SideFX
* [ ] Sean McDuffee, Intel
* [ ] Carson Brownlee, Intel
* [ ] James Pedlingham, Foundry
* [ ] Mark Final, Foundry
* [ ] Rory Woodford, Foundry
* [ ] Gary Jones, Foundry
* [ ] Kimball Thurston, Weta
* [ ] Andy Biar,  Warner Bros.
* [ ] Robin Rowe, CinePaint
* [ ] Daniel Heckenberg, Animal Logic
* [ ] Eoin Murphy, Animal Logic
* [ ] Aloys Baillet, Animal Logic
* [ ] Henry Vera, DNEG
* [ ] Michael Min, Netflix
* [ ] Francois Lord, Rodeo FX
* [ ] Larry Gritz, SPI
* [ ] John Hood, SPI
* [ ] Gordon Bradley, Autodesk
* [ ] Matthew Levine, WDAS
* [ ] Charles Fleche, Rodeo FX
* [ ] Niall Redmond, Foundry
* [ ] JT Nelson, Pasadena Open Source Consortium/SoCal Blender group
* [ ] Shawn Dunn, Epic Games
* [ ] Sean Looper, AWS
* [ ] Roman Zulak, SPI
* [ ] Serguei Kalentchouk, Apple
* [ ] Jordan Soles, Rodeo FX
* [ ] Jeff Bradley, Dreamworks

## Apologies

## Agenda/Minutes

* Action item follow-up [0:00-0:10]
    * Cory: Slack channel
    * Cory: Python documentation
    * Meeting agenda document access
    * Find and add/correct your name, trim colleagues that won’t be attending
    * Agenda location in github for future meetings
    * https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/wg-usd
    * Communications on usd-interest once WG is ratified
        * Wave: Will there be a slack channel?
        * Cory: Let’s do that
        * John: Done
* Recap of past scoping meetings [0:05-0:15]
    * Cory: two meetings in March before hiatus until now.
    * Notes available on GH
* Clarification of WG goals/non-goals [0:15-0:45]
    * Cory: conferred with USD team at Pixar about their views on contributions of most value (see WG readme)
        * WG Goal 1: Assist community members with issues raised in USD support channels
        * WG Goal 2: Consolidate and share best practices for deployment of USD technologies
        * WG Non-goal: Not a steering committee; no special influence on direction of the USD project 
        * Schema alignment is a non-goal
    * Cory: Let’s discuss deliverables for WG to focus on
    * Wave: examples of asset structures, shot / sequence structures, naming conventions
    * Gordon: need to capture rationale, discussion as well as final artifact
    * Daniel: is there a good descriptive approach to follow?  Design Patterns?  Python Enhancement Proposals?
    * Sean: How are the ideas proposed, discussed, accepted / ratified?
    * Wave: PR process seems very suitable
    * Cory: Perhaps ratified examples can be considered for migration into USD documentation
    * MichaelMin: Netflix goal is to have standards that allow for exchange of assets and materials between studios
        * Consistency
        * Encapsulation (namespacing etc)
        * Hoping for these standards to be applicable across different styles of project (documentary, episodic, live-action, animated)
    * Cory: Let’s refine wording for deliverables.  PEP-style?
    * Wave: API examples are more useful, valuable than USDA
    * Sean: Would programmatic examples be run against CI?
    * MarkTucker: Another request / deliverable would be Python documentation (not just C++)
    * Cory: Will follow up with USD team about releasing Python docs
    * Eric: Nvidia has slim bridge doc https://developer.nvidia.com/usd/apinotes
    * Wave: Windows, Mac developer, run-time environment support?
    * Daniel: Would a working cross-platform CI environment for USD be a valuable deliverable for the existing goals?
    * Cory: Yes, will add to README
    * SeanMcDuffee: Would this extend to binary downloads?
    * Cory: Hopefully
    * SeanMcDuffee: Are hardware, data center factors, performance discussions or measurements in-scope?
    * SeanLooper: Benchmarks would be valuable 
* Action Items, Agenda for next meeting [0:45-0:50]
    
## Action Items

* John: Set up wg-usd slack channel under ASWF
* Cory: Add slack channel to wg readme as communication channel
* Cory: Follow up with USD team on publishing of Python docs.
    * Python docs exist but are not yet published anywhere.
    * Doc strings also exist, but the mechanism to build them out in the open source project needs to be fixed.
        
## Notes

## Chat
